content/posts/nvim-autocommands.md, before:

---
title: "Nvim Autocommands"
date: 2024-05-17T22:16:16-04:00
draft: true
---

This is slick, I'm mad I didn't think of it. [I found it here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/63909865/5978217).

```lua
-- autocommands
--- This function is taken from https://github.com/norcalli/nvim_utils
function nvim_create_augroups(definitions)
  for group_name, definition in pairs(definitions) do
    api.nvim_command('augroup ' .. group_name)
    api.nvim_command('autocmd!')
    for _, def in ipairs(definition) do
      local command = table.concat(vim.tbl_flatten{'autocmd', def}, ' ')
      api.nvim_command(command)
    end
    api.nvim_command('augroup END')
  end
end

local autocmds = {
    reload_vimrc = {
        -- Reload vim config automatically
        {"BufWritePost",[[$VIM_PATH/{*.vim,*.yaml,vimrc} nested source $MYVIMRC | redraw]]};
    };
    packer = {
        { "BufWritePost", "plugins.lua", "PackerCompile" };
    };
    terminal_job = {
        { "TermOpen", "*", [[tnoremap <buffer> <Esc> <c-\><c-n>]] };
        { "TermOpen", "*", "startinsert" };
        { "TermOpen", "*", "setlocal listchars= nonumber norelativenumber" };
    };
    restore_cursor = {
        { 'BufRead', '*', [[call setpos(".", getpos("'\""))]] };
    };
    save_shada = {
        {"VimLeave", "*", "wshada!"};
    };
    resize_windows_proportionally = {
        { "VimResized", "*", ":wincmd =" };
    };
    toggle_search_highlighting = {
        { "InsertEnter", "*", "setlocal nohlsearch" };
    };
    lua_highlight = {
        { "TextYankPost", "*", [[silent! lua vim.highlight.on_yank() {higroup="IncSearch", timeout=400}]] };
    };
    ansi_esc_log = {
        { "BufEnter", "*.log", ":AnsiEsc" };
    };
}

nvim_create_augroups(autocmds)

```

Commit message:

Add a summary to nvim-autocommands

content/posts/nvim-autocommands.md, after:

---
title: "Nvim Autocommands"
date: 2024-05-17T22:16:16-04:00
draft: true
summary: "Use a list of tables instead of hard coding each one."
---

This is slick, I'm mad I didn't think of it. [I found it here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/63909865/5978217).

```lua
-- autocommands
--- This function is taken from https://github.com/norcalli/nvim_utils
function nvim_create_augroups(definitions)
  for group_name, definition in pairs(definitions) do
    api.nvim_command('augroup ' .. group_name)
    api.nvim_command('autocmd!')
    for _, def in ipairs(definition) do
      local command = table.concat(vim.tbl_flatten{'autocmd', def}, ' ')
      api.nvim_command(command)
    end
    api.nvim_command('augroup END')
  end
end

local autocmds = {
    reload_vimrc = {
        -- Reload vim config automatically
        {"BufWritePost",[[$VIM_PATH/{*.vim,*.yaml,vimrc} nested source $MYVIMRC | redraw]]};
    };
    packer = {
        { "BufWritePost", "plugins.lua", "PackerCompile" };
    };
    terminal_job = {
        { "TermOpen", "*", [[tnoremap <buffer> <Esc> <c-\><c-n>]] };
        { "TermOpen", "*", "startinsert" };
        { "TermOpen", "*", "setlocal listchars= nonumber norelativenumber" };
    };
    restore_cursor = {
        { 'BufRead', '*', [[call setpos(".", getpos("'\""))]] };
    };
    save_shada = {
        {"VimLeave", "*", "wshada!"};
    };
    resize_windows_proportionally = {
        { "VimResized", "*", ":wincmd =" };
    };
    toggle_search_highlighting = {
        { "InsertEnter", "*", "setlocal nohlsearch" };
    };
    lua_highlight = {
        { "TextYankPost", "*", [[silent! lua vim.highlight.on_yank() {higroup="IncSearch", timeout=400}]] };
    };
    ansi_esc_log = {
        { "BufEnter", "*.log", ":AnsiEsc" };
    };
}

nvim_create_augroups(autocmds)

```
